[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: All right, for now we're
gonna set aside the hello worlds module
because we've had our fun learning
about the module system and
how we work with that.
So from here on out,
I want us to create a separate file, so
rather than copying over, we're gonna
create a separate file and I want you to
call this file, lemme double check and
make sure I'm calling it correct.
I want you to call this file 4.server.js.
And the reason for that name,
it sounds a little bit weird but
you'll understand a little
bit later why I'm calling it.
So we're gonna start
with a blank file now,
[COUGH] kind of starting from scratch.
And what I'm gonna now teach you,
we already learned the console.log
version of Hello World, that's when
we're dealing with the command line, but
now we want to learn
about dealing with node
from the networking perspective,
listening for HTTP requests.
That really is kind of its sweet spot,
it's a really good at being a socket
server, listening for information.
That's what it was originally designed to
do is be a high performance socket server.
A little piece of trivia by the way,
node.js we obviously know it's
built on JavaScript,
that wasn't the original intent.
When Ryan Dahl was dreaming up Node,
he was actually thinking about doing
it based on some other language.
I think it was like C++ or
Ruby or something like that.
I forget which one it was, but he was
gonna do a different language and then he
discovered that JavaScript was just so
well-suited for this high throughput,
low latency event model processing that
he chose JavaScript as the language.
So [COUGH] while we equate
JavaScript with node.js now,
it wasn't always gonna be the case.
All right, so
[COUGH] the first thing that we need to
do, we already understand this module.
We need to pull in the HTTP module
because that thing is gonna be what lets
us deal with HTTP both inbound and
outbound in HTTP requests.
So we need to pull in the HTTP module.
>> Kyle Simpson: And then we need to
create ourselves an HTTP server, so
I'm gonna say http_serv,
is what I'm gonna call it for now.
Now I'm gonna say http_serv
= http.createServer() and
I need to give it a function that's
gonna handle my http request,
so I'm gonna call my function handleHTTP.
>> Kyle Simpson: So let me just define
what that function's gonna look like.
This function is gonna get called every
single time a new inbound request comes
to our server.
And it's gonna receive two parameters.
Those should look familiar from
the code I showed you earlier.
It's gonna receive a request stream and
a response stream.
We'll come back to the implementation
of that in a moment.
The other thing that we want to do we want
to have a host, which we're gonna call
local host and I'm gonna choose the port
for the rest of these examples of 8006.
I don't really care what port you choose.
But if you don't wanna have to change
your code from the stuff I'm doing,
you might choose 8006 as well.
Now the final thing we
need to wire this up is we
need to tell our HTTP server
to listen on that port.
So let me actually take those and
move them above, just for simplicity sake.
And let's call .listen on host and port.
I'm sorry, it goes the other way around,
port and then host.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now, inside of our
handleHTTP, as our very simplest approach,
we're gonna do more here in just a moment,
but as our first approach at this,
I want you to just do
res.end("Hello World").
>> Kyle Simpson: Now let's
go back to our command line.
We now have a 4.server.js, when we run
node 4.server.js, you're gonna see
something different happen that you didn't
see before and that is that it doesn't
come back to the command line
because our program didn't finish.
In fact, theoretically our program
is now an infinite program,
because there's an infinite
listening loop set up.
That's what turns our node program
from being sort of a command line
program into being what
we'd call a Daemon program.
At this point, before I go any further,
you should start to ask yourself, well,
how am I gonna manage that sort of thing?
So there's another part of the ecosystem
that deals with managing node processes
that are long running
processes like servers.
And I already have installed but
if you don't already have it installed,
if you do npm install- g, the the minus g
part is gonna make it a global utility.
Which you're probably gonna want.
If you're on a Mac or on some systems,
you may need to do a sudo in front of it.
So if this fails,
you might try it again with sudo.
But NPM install -g forever,
this is only one of a dozen utilities
that are out there for this.
But they're process managers and
what they essentially do is
they run your process and
they monitor to see if the process dies
and if it does, it restarts it right away.
So it literally keeps your
node process running forever.
And node processes do die by the way
because we don't write perfect programs,
there's out of memory errors,
there's bugs that we didn't anticipate,
our node programs do die.
As a little anecdote on that,
by the way, just kind of ever so
slightly self-serving,
I wrote a site last year back in
the late summer and early fall.
Some of you may have heard of it.
It was called the Museum of Mario.
I built it for IGN,
the Online Gaming Network magazine, and
Museum of Mario is an interactive
anthology of the 30 years of Mario.
I can even turn on my sound and
you can hear if it loads the sound.
The Donkey Kong game starts playing and
it actually plays inside of this little
Web GL thing if the network lets it
load and I may have to come back to it.
But as you scroll through this site, we
recreated these different experiences from
the Mario games and,
I think maybe I have my sound muted.
[SOUND] That might be what's wrong.
[SOUND] So let's see if I can
get the Donkey Kong one to
load cuz that one's my favorite one.
This is just a little Web GL thing that we
built so that you move your mouse around,
it rotates it in 3G.
Sometimes that video is kind of slow to
load, so maybe it's not gonna load for
us, but it does actually show a game
playing of the Donkey Kong game.
But anyway, not to show off the site but
I wanted to show that kind of an untold
story behind this museum of Mario is that.
>> [MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
that's enough sound for us.
But an untold story behind this Museum
of Mario site that I built is that
I was going along helping a team
build the frontend stuff, but
we needed to have a server for it.
And of course, because I like Node,
I just arbitrarily made the executive
decision that this site was gonna run
on Node and I didn't tell anybody.
I told my team members but
I didn't tell anybody at IGN or
Nintendo or any of those other companies.
I just made the executive decision,
we're gonna launch the site on Node.
So I wrote a simple little note program,
by the way the entire code for
this site is open sourced,
so it's on GitHub at,
I think it's html5hubs/museumofmario.
That's the correct site.
The whole code for
this site is open sourced including
the Node program that I wrote.
But I wrote this simple
little node server and
I deployed it with that forever utility.
And in the first couple of
weeks of this site going live,
we got over four million hits.
And Node didn't even break a sweat.
So, it's still running even to this day.
That's my kinda one shining
example that I can say
of me pushing something Node-based
into a production environment
that actually got a pretty
decent amount of traffic.
And I didn't go to any trouble
to create a really complex, high
availability mechanism with a Node farm
and all kinds of load balancing stuff,
it's just a single node process running
and it restarts itself with forever.
I checked the logs a few months back and
it only restarted three times
in that whole six months, so
it didn't need to restart very often but
it was keeping it alive and running.
And in fact, there was one day where about
three weeks in or something like that,
the site crashed and I got somebody
that called me kind of panicked,
they were like, the site's crashed.
What's wrong, is it node or whatever?
And we checked into it and
Node was still running just fine.
It was the load balancers that
IGN was running that'd crashed.
So Node it had no trouble whatsoever and
never crashed.
Anyway, the other reason why I bring up,
by the way,
that site as somewhat self-serving is that
Museum of Mario was nominated for
a Webby Award.
We're currently in a very
distant third place.
So I'd love to have more votes from
people in the online stream and
here if you'd go to the Web beans and sign
in with your Twitter account and vote for
Museum of Mario that'd be awesome.
But anyway, all right, enough for that.
>> Kyle Simpson: [COUGH]
Let's test our server,
let's come back to our command line.
And you can run it with
forever if you want,
I'm just gonna run it
the plain old manual way.
I can say 4.server.js.
So, it's just running and
I see it there running on my command line,
I can't do anything with it.
I can't do anything else with my command
line, but now if I come to my browser,
let me close the,
I won't close it but I'll shrink it.
Let's open up localhost port 8006, and
we see the Hello World there.
Let's test it to make sure that we're
really getting multiple ones by saying
something like Hello World
+ a random number.
We gotta come back to my command line,
I gotta kill the node process
that's there and restart it.
There are utilities that will
watch your file system and
automatically restart Node if you want to.
Okay, refresh my page and
I get a different random number,
every time I refresh the page.
Which verifies that our Node
program is in fact working.
That's the simplest network based Hello
World that you can create for yourself.